I'm here in LA and I'm feeling the
sunshine. I'm about to go meet someone
who's at the top of the A-list. She is
now making her own list of who and what
really matters.
>> So many people came backstage, do you
know there's a line around the corner?
And I didn't. And now I'm scared.
Welcome to Shineaway, part summit, part
sisterhood, where founder Ree
Witherspoon brings together A-list
stars, authors, and innovators in a
celebration of ambition, community, and
the power of women's stories. What does
it take to be the main character in your
own story? I think we all know if you're
over a certain age, you realize no one's
coming to save you. You are the hero of
your story.
>> Witherspoon built a billion-doll company
with a deceptively simple idea. women's
stories sell. And she's expanded that
vision into a storytelling ecosystem
spanning books, film, television,
lifestyle, and live events.
>> The thing about risk is when you do it
and you kind of get away with stuff and
it works out, you keep taking more
risks. I get excited about the challenge
of trying something new.
>> Few people have adapted to Hollywood's
reinventions quite like Reese
Witherspoon.
>> Never thought I'd be here my whole life.
Now, amid streaming slowdowns, shifting
audiences, and shrinking budgets, she's
determined there's still more to her
story.
>> I thought probably like 10 years ago, I
was like, I really I know I'm here for
something else. I'm not here to just be
an actor. And not that that's a bad
thing. Just
>> Well, are we are we rolling? Cuz this is
good stuff.
>> Yeah, it is. Okay. Okay.
[Music]
>> Vibe check. How you feeling? It's kind
of overwhelming because it's the it's
like the physical manifestation of a
dream that I've had for a long time, but
now here we are and all these people are
here. What are the big themes that you
want the audience to take home? I think
a big part of why I'm excited about
today is community. I think we all crave
it as human beings. we don't connect as
much particularly in this modern world
where we're all very occupied with
things that are going on online and our
daily problems you know and I think the
idea of connecting over like-minded
ideas is just something people need to
experience you know and there's
something about it coming to life today
that's been really emotional for me
because I imagined this I did a whole
exercise when I started this company
where I wrote down what I wanted it to
look like and a big part of it was
having this moment of people actually
seeing each other in one space.
>> You got I mean you got emotional up
there.
>> I know. Well, women came from 30
different states from other countries to
meet their favorite authors to be
inspired by entrepreneurs and women in
healthcare. And it's not lost on me. I
feel really lucky to be a woman in this
position to gather other women and help,
you know, enhance their lives. Even if
it's only just for a day or even if you
have one little life motto takeaway.
Witherspoon spent three decades in
Hollywood building her career playing
women who were underestimated by
everyone else. L Woods, Tracy Flick,
Cheryl Strade, and June Carter. Looking
back on your career, you seem to pick
the perfect roles at the perfect time.
How would you describe your instincts? A
lot of the movies that I made in my
early 20s and my late 20s are sort of
the movies that made me who I was. I was
always really clear about what I wanted
to express. Even I remember doing
Legally Blonde and thinking this isn't a
story about a ditzy girl who goes to
Harvard. It's actually about a woman
who's very substantive but is
unapologetically feminine. And the two
can exist at the same time.
>> You got into Harvard law.
>> What? Like it's hard. You didn't have to
be strident and look a certain way to be
considered academic or serious. It also
had fun with feminism.
>> Mhm. It did look like you were having
fun.
>> I had so much fun.
>> We had fun.
>> I know. And it's been that role changed
my life in so many ways.
>> And as she built her career playing
strong women, Witherspoon was equally
strategic offscreen, watching who had
influence and who didn't. I dread
reading scripts that have no women
involved in their creation because
inevitably I get to that part where the
girl turns to the guy and she goes,
"What do we do now?"
>> So, what do we do now?
>> What do we do now? Now, do you know any
woman in any crisis situation
who has
any woman in any crisis who has
absolutely no idea what to do?
>> You set out to create a company that
would change the conversation for women.
Does it feel like you're going forward?
>> I think it feels like we are taking the
right strides forward. But even if you
look at the statistics, it's not 50/50.
There's still a deficit of female
directors, a deficit in screenwriting,
but it's it's making meaningful change.
I mean, the numbers, the percentages are
are jumping. And I think the
consciousness around it has totally
changed. It's like the lights are on.
You can't pretend that you don't know
that we aren't hiring women and people
of color for these jobs. Um, so there's
definitely more of an acceptance that
stories aren't just need to be told by
the same 20 filmmakers over and over
again. How much progress do you feel
you've made so far?
>> I think there's been a lot of progress
since I started. I really started. The
first iteration of this company was
around 2011. It was just a wildly
different time. There wasn't streaming.
There wasn't instant gratification with
social media. We really got ramped up
around 2016.
In 2011, Ree founded Pacific Standard, a
production company championing women's
voices with films like Gone Girl and
Wild. By 2016, she'd scaled that vision
into Hello Sunshine, a full-fledged
media company behind Big Little Lies.
>> I feel so ashamed for saying this, but
being a mother is not enough for me.
>> The Morning Show.
>> The part you guys never seem to realize
is that you don't have the power
anymore.
>> And her wildly popular book club. Your
book club now has a massive influence
over the publishing industry. By some
estimates, it's bigger than Oprah's. How
do you view that power?
>> I have a sort of a tricky relationship
with the word power. You know, it
doesn't feel like power to me. It's to
me it's um there's definitely a feeling
of maybe influencing people towards
literacy by shining a light on things
that I think um our main metric at Hill
Sunshine is like is it sharable
>> because I want to build community around
reading. I don't want you to read it and
feel siloed and you don't want to have a
conversation. I love that idea and that
energy of people sharing things and
talking about them and creating
conversation. And my original idea was
what I really dreamed about was taking
the book club out of your living room
and into the the this global community
online. But in some ways, this today is
like taking it back down to its
essential elements. And having so many
authors here is such a thrill for me cuz
I am those are my rock stars. Authors
are my rock stars.
>> You've got books, you've got podcasts,
movies, TV, obviously live events. What
era is Hello Sunshine in now?
>> Well, I think we're beyond the
beginning.
One of my favorite things about being
part of a company like this is it's ever
evolving. So, it feels like it's always
growing and then we're also we're young
enough and and new enough that we can
pivot. What was the hardest lesson you
had to learn and how did you push
through it? I think the hardest lesson
for me was even if you have great
creative ideas, it doesn't mean you have
the business plan to back it up.
>> So, I've learned a lot of hard lessons
in business. You know, if certain
verticals don't work, you have to really
look at them critically. Even though you
think it's a good idea, it doesn't mean
it is. And it doesn't mean that you
should stop taking risks, but you need
to understand that you can't continue to
risk if things aren't providing economic
value. So, it's this constant battle in
my mind between the art of things and
the commerce of things. I came from the
middle of America and I loved big poppy
public cont like popular films and I
love television shows. I watched hours
of it after school. So, I've always gone
to that place of how does this speak to
people? How does this make people feel?
Um, and I do think there's always a
world where you can do well and do good
at the same time.
As Hello Sunshine found its footing, so
did a new Hollywood trend. A wave of
celebrities building out their own media
empires. LeBron James, Kevin Hart, the
Duke and Duchess of Sussex, all betting
they could turn star power into
storytelling power. But few have shined
as bright as Witherspoon's Hello
Sunshine. In 2021, it sold in a headline
grabbing $900 million deal.
>> Your company sold for almost a billion
dollars. How do you live up to the
expectations? the public's expectations,
investors expectations.
>> One of the main things that kept
occurring to me when um I was in the
process of selling the company was
not not
necessarily how it made me feel
validated, but I thought it was really
important that a company that was about
female storytelling
mattered. the value of it mattered
because it's such a reflection in this
world about do we care and invest in
women's stories. Um, and I I'm so proud
of everything we've created. My team is
impeccable. They work so hard, but they
also wake up working on this mission
that they truly believe. And that's
that's like all I could have ever hoped
for is just to create a company that
makes me proud and makes me think the
women who came before me would be very
proud of. If the near billion dollar
sale marked a high point, four years
later, the industry looks very
different. Budgets tightened, greenlight
slowed, and Hollywood is asking harder
questions about what wins and why. To
see how Hello Sunshine is translating
its current vision into strategy, I
headed to their LA headquarters to meet
the women at the heart of its leadership
team. It's hard not to say hello
Sunshine when I walk through the door.
>> If the Octavia Spencer always says,
"Hello, Sunshine."
>> As Hollywood shifts, Hello Sunshine has
seen changes of its own. This year,
longtime CEO Sarah Harden stepped down.
Moring Polo, who previously led the
company's book club, podcasts, and live
events, stepped up to the job. So, first
of all, congrats on the new job. What's
first on your to-do list?
>> What's first on our to-do list is to
really work closely with the other
executives in my leadership team and
really align everybody internally on the
on what's happening in the industry
around us right now and in the broader
marketplace that we're all playing in.
Working alongside Moren is Lauren
Newatter, who leads the film and
television division, steering Hello
Sunshine's creative output across
Hollywood's shifting landscape. How
would you describe Hello Sunshine's
place in Hollywood right now?
>> I think we're in a really exciting,
comfortable, confident place in
Hollywood right now. I think we know
what we do and we're so proud to do it.
Everything we do centers on strong
female characters and in unconventional
ways, we showcase them as the heroes of
their own stories.
>> There's so many different parts of the
Hell of Sunshine pie. Is the goal here
to just make a good TV show and a good
movie, or is the goal to turn this into
a bigger business? Well, I think the
goal is absolutely to turn it into a
bigger business and that's why we have
so many unique opportunities. I mean,
look, it really started with book club.
Even before Hello Sunshine existed, it
was all about Reese loving these books
and celebrating these books and engaging
with the audience. And then when I came
in to work on film and television, it
was about how do we actually build a
bridge between some of the book picks
and film and television so that we were
bringing them to life for our audience
and continuing the journey of loving a
book.
In theory, it all connects. The book
club drives development, which becomes
shows, podcasts, and live events that
loop the audience back in. Even
lifestyle brands like the Home Edit fit
into that ecosystem, extending the Hello
Sunshine world into people's homes. For
a wider lens on Hello Sunshine strategy
and what it reveals about Hollywood
today, I turned to Lucas Shaw, a
longtime reporter on Hollywood's power
players. When Hello Sunshine sold for a
billion dollars, was that like a mic
drop moment? Yeah, I mean that was at
the apex of this sort of streaming
optimism and you saw a bunch of
celebrity production companies and a
bunch of production companies in general
raising money, selling and I think the
number just caught everyone off guard,
but it probably was also a sign that
this this bubble was finally going to
start letting some air out.
>> Would the deal still happen now?
>> Not at that price. I mean, you don't see
a lot of production companies being
bought and sold and certainly not at
those valuations. You know, there was so
much excitement and enthusiasm during
the streaming boom and then starting
around early to mid 2022, that all stops
and every company starts laying people
off. They start cutting their budgets
and it has never really bounced back
since then.
>> What about if you're Reese Witherspoon?
>> Reese Witherspoon, the actress, I'm not
worried about her at all. Reese
Witherspoon, the producer, also in
pretty good shape. I mean, I think the
biggest talent has an advantage on
everyone because they are seen as a
brand and bankable in some way that
people still want to work with them.
Reese Witherspoon, the founder of Hello
Sunshine, that's where the picture gets
a little more complicated.
>> There's a sense that Hollywood still
hasn't recovered from the downturn. Has
the content bubble popped and how is
that changing the strategy?
>> I think definitely there's a shift is in
any market things are contracting for
sure. Um, but I think it's going to get
back to a a business that's really based
on great storytelling. It's kind of a
great opportunity to refine our ideas.
There was so much going on before that
was just being bought and made and
bought and made and it was it was about
it was about time that we needed to sort
of get to the real um premium content
again.
>> So, how is Hello Sunshine really doing?
Well, as a production company, it's
doing okay. You know, I think they have
a better chance of selling projects than
many of their peers because they have a
track record, because they have Reese,
because they have professional
management, but they haven't produced
like a slew of hits. For it to be as
valuable as it wants to be and to grow
into something that's more than a
production company, it has to have these
other businesses. I mean, it can't just
be making film and television because
that's not a great business right now.
>> Is Hello Sunshine profitable? We are a
profitable business and you know I think
that at the end of the day the
conversation our conversation keeps
going back to the questioning around you
know Hello Sunshine is a healthy
business and I get frustrated by that
sometimes because it feels like we are
constantly under you know a microscope.
I think the entertainment industry has
gone through tough times in the last
couple of years. And I think that those
that thrive and those that scale are
those that have not had to pivot their
mission and at the core of what they do.
And at our core, we are a company that
centers female stories. And because
we've never had to pivot away from what
we are, we have this really incredible
foundation that allows us to um continue
scaling, you know, on top of it. There's
not many companies in the last couple of
years who have added new businesses.
>> It's not about telling people come to
us. We have to be able to go to them and
if that means podcast, great. If that if
that means television shows are more
popular than the movies at a certain
time, we can sort of um drive the ship
towards that. So, um I feel lucky that
we're nimble.
>> Would you say it's all fully clicked?
And if not, what's it going to take to
get there?
>> I love the question. Do you think it
it's fully clicked? I think um in 2025
going into 2026, I feel like nobody can
actually say everything is clicked,
right? I think we have so much that is
really clicking in such a powerful
meaningful way. We've launched a new Gen
Z platform for the next generation of
girls called Sunny.
>> Sunny is
>> Sunny is Sunny is for the girls by the
girls.
>> Do you guys feel empowered?
>> And when you look at what Lauren
Newset's business is doing in TV and
film, we're really looking for
connection points for that next
generation of consumers, too. That
throughine of connection shows up
everywhere and drives what the team is
planning next. So, let's talk about the
upcoming slate.
>> Well, there's a lot to be excited about.
I mean, first and foremost, L, which is
our show that is in the world of Legally
Blonde. Reese is really incredibly
preient and also very sensitive. I think
she thinks a lot about the next
generation. So, I think she was seeing
what was going on with young women today
and the messages that were being sent to
young women. and she called me one day
and she said, "I think we need to see El
Woods in high school." And I was like,
"Oh my goodness, this is very exciting."
>> Wait, she's coming. Okay.
>> Hi.
>> We just wanted to tell you that you
don't have to audition anymore because
you got the part. You're all
>> You're all Yeah.
>> It's part of, you know, conversation
still 20 years later.
>> I hope you're going to teach her the
bend and snap because it needs to be
perfect.
>> I mean, of course.
So you bend
>> and snap.
>> Also on the slate, a new chapter with
Legally Blonde 3, an adaptation of book
club pick The Night and Gale and a big
swing with Polly Pocket after Barbie
proved a toy can capture the zeitgeist.
Hollywood does do a lot of new takes on
old stories. Why do that? Why not just
create new stories? You know, I will be
honest and say I think when you're
leaning on IP, it will always feel a
little bit safer because you know that
there's an audience that's engaging with
it. But even with a strong slate ahead,
Hello Sunshine faces the same headwinds
as the rest of Hollywood with future
generations shifting to YouTube and
social video and new technologies like
AI starting to reshape how stories are
made and consumed. It's
>> the most powerful imagination engine
ever built. How is big tech changing
Hollywood for better and for worse?
>> Hello Sunshine is spending a lot of our
time thinking about big tech. We're
thinking about AI. We're leveraging AI
in some really thoughtful ways. But I
think what's really important to think
about from a Hello Sunshine perspective
is that people and human experiences are
core to everything we do at this
company. Our mission is to center female
stories. You cannot use technology to
center their stories, to tell their
stories. But what you can use technology
for is to optimize the way in which we
build those stories.
>> I mean, Open AI is really testing the
limits with Sora. Huge controversy
around this. I mean, someone like Reese
Witherspoon, who has contributed decades
to the film and television industry.
Should they just be able to use
>> No, they should never be able to do
that. That's that should never happen.
Um, it should never happen. And again,
it goes back to I we think about AI as
enhancements and optimizers and not as
the center of the story. They're never
going to replace humans. I actually also
believe that the younger generation,
they care about human connection. They
care about people. They want to know who
the humans are behind the work.
>> The world is so different today than
when you were playing Lle Woods. It's
dominated by algorithms and AI and
social media. How do you imagine your
career might be different if you were
just starting out now?
>> Oh my gosh, Emily, I just I don't think
my career would be possible. Um, it's a
different world. I see young people and
I have so much compassion for young
performers and actors because they have
to be the producer, the director, they
have to shoot their own videos, they
have to market themselves. That's not
something that I understood when I was
20 years old. It was something there was
an entire apparatus to market material.
So, it's a different challenging time.
That said, the incredibly talented
people will always rise, right? Even in
a in a glut of information,
real talent survives and thrives. What
does success look like right now? Is it
viewership? Is it awards? Is it making
money? Is it critical acclaim?
>> For me, success looks like pride in the
end product. Making something that we
feel really proud of that our audiences
love. I think critics will always have
their own opinions, but I'm more
interested in what audiences think. Are
they engaging with the material? Are
they coming back? If it's the morning
show, are they dying to watch the next
episode? And if the answer is yes, that
is success.
Behind the pink neon and the rainbow
colored bookshelves is a company trying
to rewire how a studio connects with
fans every day across screens, shelves,
and real world stages.
>> What do you think is next?
I think I think we're seeing women
getting the economic empowerment and
also now we have this empirical data
that women's stories matter. Women
female artistry matters. The market is
responding, right? Because women consume
media. They're on these platforms really
liking and and proitizing on social
media about the things they love.
They're marketing these products. And I
think it's it's really nice to see the
acknowledgement by different industries
that um acknowledging women as consumers
is actually good business. You found a
way to embrace femininity but also power
and agency.
How do you imagine that journey being
different for girls today? Do you have
any advice for our daughters?
>> I think we have to trust our daughters.
They are listening. I think we have to
lead by example and do the very best we
can to to walk the walk. I know I I try
really hard with my company to show a
whole dynamic spectrum of the female
experience because if we normalize that
there are all kinds of different women
doing making different life choices
whether you want kids you don't want
kids you you you want to be a career
woman you don't want to be a career
woman you struggle to make it wait you
you you worry you question about your
origins right when we see more stories
we become more compassionate about each
other as humans
>> I three sons and a daughter. And so it's
just crazy seeing
>> how life is different for them.
>> How old is your daughter?
>> She's five.
>> I think it'll shift. I really do. I
think it'll shift back to um I see young
people too kind of reverting back to
this idea of stripping off all that
artifice.
>> I think it's kind of punk rock.
>> It's punk rock.
>> My daughter and I talk about I'm like I
think it's kind of punk rock to not put
a bunch of filters on yourself.
>> I love it. I love it. # no filter.
[Music]
I've decided I'm going to write this
thriller and I'm really lucky to have a
great partner, Haren Cobin, who's just
one of the greatest thriller writers and
a lovely human.
>> Is this a side of you we didn't know
existed? Maybe
I contain multitudes.
[Music]